---
title: Top 10 Most Cited Evidence Cards From OpenCaselist
author: denssumesh @ arguflow
pubDatetime: 2023-08-04T10:00:00Z
postSlug: Top 10 cards that have been cited the most frequently from the OpenCaselist wiki
featured: true
draft: false
tags:
  - vault
  - embeddings
ogImage: /assets/Arguflow_Opengraph.png
description: See the top 10 cards that have been referenced the most by the case briefs uploaded to Vault
---

These are the top 10 cards that were referenced the most by debate cases
uploaded to [Arguflow Vault](https://vault.arguflow.ai/) (all of the OpenCaselist wiki). Each of these cards are from different cases
and most likely have different cuts, or excerpts, from the original article.

## Number 10:

### Russian Cyberattacks can not take out the US grid (Collided 752 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/804d93d4...](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/804d93d4-1aa4-470c-9133-24bbc08d6b66)

Especially with these past couple of years with Russia's aggression in Ukraine,
their cyber capability has come to the forefront of discussion in politics as
well as in the debate community. This card talks about how Russia and China's
cyber capabilities are not as strong as they are made out to be. Furthermore, it
discusses the fact that these actors have no incentive to attack the US when
they know that US retaliation will be far more devastating. This card refutes
common arguments made by debaters about how Russia and China are going to attack
the US.

## Number 9:

### Biodiversity loss is an existential threat (Collided 782 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/bf915b405](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/bf915b40-52b9-4ef9-a46a-b45ae0b34895)

Biodiversity loss is a distinct threat. This loss results from factors like
ecosystem fragmentation, pollution, overfishing, and overpopulation. The 2015
Science Advances study reveals a rapid sixth mass extinction, with vertebrate
species loss much higher than background rates. Wild populations dwindle due to
habitat loss, as seen in various studies. Biodiversity loss could lead to
catastrophic consequences, surpassing even climate change impacts, causing
unrest, instability, and conflicts. This card is an impact card that is placed
towards the bottom of the case to prove to the judge that solving the issues of
their case is important.

## Number 8:

### Capitalism is a failed system that will lead to our extinction (Collided 810 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/e0a13ff8](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/e0a13ff8-801b-4038-af95-97560164944d)

In the early 21st century, capitalism is evident to have failed as a social
system. Liberal democracy is collapsing, while fascism, patriarchy, racism,
imperialism, and war resurge. Environmental consequences include biodiversity
loss, climate change, and health crises. The world faces a crucial choice
between transformative change and perilous collapse. These types of cards are
parts of kritiks which are arguments that question the very social structures
that we live in and how they are inherently flawed.

## Number 7:

### A definition of the phrase "in the area" (Collided 831 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/19bbcd23](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/19bbcd23-bab5-41d5-a206-f3ed0dc6f395)

This card is from the UN and it describes how the phrase "in the area" is
defined. Specifically, in the area refers to all activities of the area. This
card is usually used to help define the topic that is being debated or to point
out how the other team's case is misrepresenting the topic.

## Number 6:

### A US-China war over Taiwan will go nuclear (Collided 1083 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/68212cee](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/68212cee-3710-4d69-881a-84a6007954fc)

The possibility of a nuclear war between China and the United States in the
context of a conflict over Taiwan is a growing concern. China's military
modernization and expansion of its nuclear arsenal, coupled with its
determination to reunify Taiwan, create a scenario where the use of nuclear
weapons could become a real possibility. A recent war game demonstrated the
potential for rapid escalation in such a conflict. China's strategy focuses on
preventing US intervention by using nuclear threats to deter outside support for
Taiwan. Despite China's "no-first-use" nuclear policy, its increasing
capabilities and the perceived need to ensure its threats' credibility could
lead to limited nuclear demonstrations. This card is an impact card that is used
to show the judge why their case is important and why they should vote for them.

## Number 5:

### Definition of Open Borders (Collided 1088 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/98266602](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/98266602-7664-4950-969f-b624a9e942fb)

This card defines what open borders are. It states that open borders are the
absence of restrictions on the movement of goods and people across borders. This
card is usually used to help define the topic that is being debated or to point
out how the other team's case is misrepresenting the topic.

## Number 4:

### Existential Threats are the most important impact (Collided 1155 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/6ae49a91](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/6ae49a91-61b8-4551-bff2-6e228e6a76bd)

The author argues that despite the various disagreements in moral philosophy,
there is a fundamental point of agreement that reducing the risk of global
catastrophic events, such as a nuclear war, is of utmost importance. This
assertion holds regardless of one's moral framework, whether it's
consequentialism, deontology, virtue ethics, or even egoism. The sheer number of
potential future lives at stake underscores the importance of this goal. This
card is usually used to help show why existential threats are the most important
impacts in front of the judge.

## Number 3:

### Definition of Utilitarianism (Collided 1160 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/1f6ef98a](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/1f6ef98a-3a8a-4dbc-b411-5d145c78639c)

Utilitarianism is "deep pragmatism." Utilitarianism focuses on impartiality and
values the conscious experience's quality. It offers a common metric to resolve
conflicts among different values. However, criticisms exist, especially its
failure to address rights. The Trolley Problem is discussed, revealing
utilitarianism's limitations. Despite challenges, the guest defends
utilitarianism as a practical approach to addressing moral disputes. This card
is usually used to defend the use of utilitarianism as the framework to view
impacts in the debate round.

## Number 2:

### Infectious diseases are an existential threat (Collided 1502 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/08302129](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/08302129-fdb9-4014-a2b4-4deb42cfdf9c)

The COVID-19 pandemic highlights the need to prepare for future, potentially
worse pandemics. Scientific evidence suggests that the human gut harbors viruses
capable of affecting vital organs. Pathogenic variants could lead to contagious
viruses causing pandemics and severe diseases, potentially leading to the
shutdown of civilization and human extinction. Addressing these scenarios
requires preventative measures to mitigate projected adverse outcomes. This card
is an impact card that is placed towards the bottom of the case to prove to the
judge that solving the issues of their case is important.

## Number 1:

### Pleasure and reward systems control our actions (Collided 2492 times)

#### [vault.arguflow.ai/card/1ece3a08](https://vault.arguflow.ai/card/1ece3a08-c423-47b9-89fa-f9e155222785)

The role of pleasure in reward systems is complex and vital. Pleasure, a primary
effect of rewards, drives learning, approach behavior, and decision-making. It
underlies hedonic theories of reward function. While pleasure is a hallmark of
rewards, it may not always be necessary. Rewards may involve substances
essential for bodily function. Pleasure has evolutionary roots, promoting
survival and gene propagation. The brain's reward circuitry, including the
mesolimbic dopamine pathway, influences liking, learning, and wanting aspects of
pleasure. This circuitry plays a crucial role in addiction. Pleasure and reward
systems also impact social interactions, mental health, and well-being. Recent
research highlights differences in dopamine systems between humans and other
primates, shedding light on unique human behaviors and potential
vulnerabilities. This card is usually used to defend the use of utilitarianism
as the framework to view impacts in the debate round.
